# Proyecto-arava
Used PowerApps, SharePoint, and the rest of the Microsoft 365 environment plus a SQL relational database to create a software platform able to automate different daily processes at the international airport of Guatemala, "La Aurora." 

## overview
This project was worked on together with the ground services company Laats, which operates mainly at the Aurora international airport. The project focused on automating the data collection process for seven different Laats departments. The aforementioned automation includes the steps of storing information in a format useful for the finance department, generating documents that capture the information. collecting and storing the generated documents. The means by which this automation was carried out was through the development of seven applications in adaptable format, one for each department with which we worked. The agile methodology that was applied in the development of the project was the Kanban methodology.

The applications were developed in the Power Apps development engine, in combination with other Microsoft tools such as SharePoint or Power Automate. All this development was done using as a target group, the Laats staff who work in each of the 7 departments mentioned above.

## Business Understanding 
At the airport, there are some companies that are dedicated to providing basic aeronautical services to the different airlines that have a presence in Guatemala, since for these airlines, it is too expensive to have a headquarters as such in the country, and they prefer to hire one of these third-party companies. to be able to have those services that they need for their clients in the country. One of these companies is Laats, a company with which I worked on this project. Laats is the company that has the most clients of all the companies that are dedicated to this type of service at the airport. Among these clients, we can find well-known airlines such as Aeroméxico or Copa.

Due to the diversity of clients that Laats can work with, the company needs to be able to provide different types of services, which is why Laats is subdivided into different departments. For this project, we worked with 7 departments: CCO, SAP, SEC, CGO, PXS, Manto, and FBO. Each of these departments sought to adapt to new times, automating and keeping records of their processes. We also worked together with the quality department, which was in charge of supervising and validating the development of the applications. Together with them, we sought to improve and adapt in the best possible way to the path the project was going to take.

Applications are developed that coexist in the same ecosystem in order to unify their results without hindering each other. That is why it was decided that each of the departments with which we worked would have their own application, so that, although they have the same purpose, they can adapt more to the needs of the staff of each department, besides for security and monitoring reasons. If there is a requirement that the personnel of each department only be able to view and consult the information generated in their department.

## Conclusion
Finally, the results showed that the target users were able to use the applications during or after air operations, having generated a total of 5,406 service orders among all departments, with the majority of departments having a percentage of less than 4% of canceled orders. Which means that users had an easy adaptation using the applications, apart from the fact that they expressed themselves positively about them, leaving all the information collected by them stored and reflected in service orders stored in a Microsoft cloud service and in databases that can be converted into Excel files for the disposal of the finance department, allowing them to have this information in a format useful to them.
